1. How do you plan on exhibiting professionalism at Techtonica? What would be different in a full-time engineering job setting?
A: I plan on following Techtonica's expectations of professionalism by practicing mindulness, maintaining a sense of accountability for my actions and decisions, exhuberating candor as well as compassion and open-mindedness, creating and maintaining boundaries, respecting and uplifting my colleagues, and contributing to an inclusive and safe workspace.  
I would hope that in a full-time engineering job setting, it wouldn't be different.

2. What would you do if you just found out you are going to be an hour late tomorrow morning?
A: If I knew I was going to be late, I would contact my SEAM right away.
 
3. What would you do if you realized that you only had time to finish most of your work by the due date of a group project?
A: I would let my teammates know as soon as possible to work out a contingency plan.
 
4. Knowing yourself, what are the most effective ways for you to learn and retain new information?
A: I retain information well by building my knowledge of the concepts, using or creating visual aids, and applying what I've learned.
 
5. What is growth mindset?
A: A growth mindset is a choice to continuing growing, moving forward, and trying again, no matter what. It's what drives one to continue to grow beyond failure or disappointment. It fosters resilience and a stronger self-esteem.
 
6. Which operating system are you using right now? Name two other popular operating systems.
A: I use MacOS. Two other popular operating systems include Linux and Android.
 
7. Why do computers need operating systems?
A: Operating systems allows the computer to function by allowing the computer's hardware and software programs to communicate with one another. The OS manages processes and tasks, such as memory, the CPU, devices connected to the computer, files, and the network. 

 
8. Explain what you would do if you felt stuck on a coding problem.
A: I would try and timebox the amount of time I'd spend on it. Then I'd consider taking a rest and revisiting it with fresh eyes. After a while, I will ask help from my colleagues or mentors, if I still have trouble.
 
9. Describe the ways you plan on meeting and staying connected with new people in tech this month.
A: I am working to build my network on Twitter among developer and coding communities. I also hope to join MeetUps and continue to seek out other engineers or bootcamp alums to get a better idea of what I can prepare for by the end of the program.
 
10. Describe some examples of effective body language and what is communicated when they are used well.
A: One example of effective body language is head nodding. I like to nod my head sometimes to let people know they are heard. Another example is smiling. I do this to let others know I am approachable and enjoying collaborating with them.
 
11. Describe some examples of effective word choice and what is communicated when they are used well.
A: Some examples of effective word choice include positive phrases such as "Would you please...would you mind..." instead of "You need to...you have to..." these phrases show openness, and don't push a sense of obligation on the other party. "I will try...I will find out for you..." are effective word choices over phrases like "I can't" and "Definitely not," because they indicate an willingness to follow through and be of assistance, rather than abruptly reject.
 
12. How can you build trust in a team?
A: I can be accountable for any signs of lack of trust by seeking to neutralize any negative behaviors towards myself. I can work to be vulnerable and authentic, while also ehibiting candor. I will step up and step back to ensure others are encouraged to speak and are not interrupted. I can work collaboratively, as the best way forward is by putting our best selves together.
 
13. How are the devices on the internet physically connected to each other?
A: Like a phone system, devices are connected to the Internet via a network (likely from one's own/company's internet service provider, or over a wireless network). Within one's home, for instance, a a device may be connected over wires (via various devices such as mediums, hubs, or routers), and without wires (over radio waves to a router). Electricity serves as a vehicle to carry information from one device to another, and back, over a network. Networks are connected to each other via large wires, both underground and under water. Computers connected to those networks can be identified by their IP addresses. 
 
sources: (1) https://www.quora.com/How-is-computer-information-transmitted-between-servers-and-computers?share=1, (2) https://howdns.works/video/

14. How is information physically transmitted from device to device?
A: Data is transmitted via "packets" containing a maximum of 1,500 bytes. Packets are wrapped with headers and footers that tell computers what info will be included in those packets. Some information can be broken down into multiple packets that travel different paths. These packets will travel from one machine to another until they reach their designated destination. Computers then receive the packets and reassemble them in a the way it was intended to be read. 

source: https://computer.howstuffworks.com/ip-convergence2.htm
 
15. How does one device find another it’s trying to communicate with?
A: When one tries to access a link via a domain name, the Domain Name System (DNS) is used to translate a domain name into an IP address for it to access. The computer searches for the IP address of another device. The OS and browser will first search their cache for the known IP address. If they do not know, they will contact a DNS resolver (usually one's Internet service provider) which will provide the IP address of that site. If the resolver cannot find it within its cache, the resolver will iterate over a hierarchy of names, starting with the Top-Level Domain (TLD), until it receives an authoritative answer for that domain. Once the IP address is attained, the resolver will store the info within its memory (cache) for future use, then return it to the OS, which then gives it to the browser.

sources: (1) https://howdns.works/video/, (2) https://howdns.works/ep1/ (3) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_Name_System
 
16. What methods do devices on the internet use to communicate?
A: Devices on the internet can communicate via the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP/IP) suite, which contains a set of protocols. There are 4 layers within TCP/IP:
- the link layer: the lowest layer in the stack with a group of methods to operate on a host's link (commonly Ethernet),
- the internet layer (IP): connects local networks to one another,
- the transport layer (TCP): controls host-host communication, and
- the application layer: specifies data communications. For example, the HTTP application protocol that serves as the foundation for of the World Wide Web. 

source: https://mashable.com/2012/10/17/tcpip-faq/
 
17. How can we send data reliably even if the network is unreliable?
A: The TCP/IP protocols account for processes to ensure that, even in the case of transferring data via an unreliable channel, bidirectional data transfer (rather than unidirectional data transfer) can occur--where, both the sending end and the receiving end between layers can transmit packets in both directions to ensure successful transfer of data. Additionally, there are multiple levels of error-handling, such as the TCP/IP protocol specifying the acknowledgement of successful (or unsuccessful) receiving of a message, or specifying a redundant encoding of bits to allow for recovery of corrupted data in transit. 

sources: (1) https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/principle-of-reliable-data-transfer-protocol/, (2) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_Name_System

